---
title: 18-10-27 - GCP Networking Concepts
---

See [here](https://cloud.google.com/vpc) for details.

- Networks are owned by GCP Projects.  A GCP Network is called a VPC (Virtual Private Cloud) but is also referred to as a network.  For clarity I will call these GCP Networks.
- A GCP Project can contain many GCP Networks. 
- GCP Networks can contain Sub-Networks - I will call these GCP Subnets.
- A project can share a GCP Network (these are call Shared VPCs).
- Firewall entries can be created to manage access to services on networks.  Firewalls can prevent access between instances on a single GCP-Network and between GCP-Networks and to the External Internet.
- GCP-Networks can connect to other GCP-Network using Peering (called VPC Peering).
- A concept called VPC Private Access allows access to the public facing PaaS services (such a Cloud Storage, Big Query) without leaving the private network (to an internal IP Address).

## Limitations - As of Sept 2018:

- Access to PaaS services such as Big Query and Cloud Storage cannot be limited to specific networks however a new service is in Alpha testing called VPC Service Controls which will provide this level of control.  At present access to PaaS is control by accounts privileges only (IAM).
- GCP-Network Peering only allows communication between directly connected GCP-Networks.  This means if we have 3 GCP-Networks: A, B and C, if A is peered with B and B is peered with C, instances on network A cannot access instances on network C.

<hr>
<p class="pagedate">This page was generated by <a href=".">GitHub Pages</a>.  Page last modified: 20/12/07 23:20</p>
